>> Mike North: Next, we're going to look
at two nice Microsoft projects that I find
really useful in Monorepos,
API Extractor and API Documenter.
And they're kind of meant
to work together, and
we'll see how in this next section.
So first we're going to
install API Extractor.
The purpose of this project
is kind of twofold, but
all centrally related to the same thing.
It will analyze your project and
specifically it'll
analyze your declaration files
in your build output and
it will create a rollup of
those declaration files.
What this means is you're going to get
one DTS file that contains everything
that you're potentially exporting.
It will give you an API report for
that file.
It's a markdown file.
And I would encourage you to commit this
one to Git because it makes spotting
changes to the API to the public API
of your library super easy to see.
Because this is mainly a library tool,
we're going to be focusing
on the Models package,
but you would use this anywhere you
have a library shaped monorepo package.
Let's jump in, let's enter
the Models folder Packages Models.
And we're gonna install API Extractor.
PNPM i dev dependency
Microsoft/api-extractor.
Great.
This is a nice tool that gives you
the starting point configuration file
with a easy command.
Api-extractor init and
we're gonna see that in models.
What just popped up this thing?
The api-extractor.json file.
If you hate these red squiggles.
The red squiggles are because technically
comments are not allowed in JSON.
In fact, a lot of tooling will be unhappy,
if you add comments to
your package JSON a lot of tooling
will be super mad about that.
There's something you can
do in your settings file.
Interesting, I guess I
already have it here.
You know what, I just need to pull this
up to the root level of my workspace.
I had a .vscode folder that was there
at the beginning of the workshop.
And now in order to be honored,
it needs to be.
Wow, get me out of here.
It needs to be at the workspace root,
good God.
Great, there's VS code.
And maybe if I open this up again.
Removed it.
Saved.
Added it saved.
Apparently that's what VS Code took
to make the complaints go away.
All right, we need to make
a couple little edits here, but
let me tell you about what you're
setting up in this config file.
First off, you're configuring
the particulars of the rollups.
Actually this might be
useful in this outline.
So they've got an API report object,
a doc model project, like a, sorry,
top level property, and
then we've got a DTS rollup property.
So we're gonna go to DTS rollup and
we're gonna see that there
are a couple paths here.
There's an untrimmed file path,
there's a alpha trimmed file path,
a beta trimmed file path.
And so what's gonna happen here is if
we went to our seed packet model and
we said, all right, this is exported here,
I can add JSDOC tags like alpha or
beta or internal, and
that will determine which of
these rollup files the types for
this end up in which, if any,
like if it's internal,
well, untrimmed file path,
that's the only one it'll show up in.
But if I say it's beta, well,
it'll go in both the alpha and
the beta, and
of course in the untrimmed path.
And then if you're saying it's public,
well,
it also goes in the public file path.
So you can think of these
as sort of being more and
more restrictive the more mature
the release is, if you will,
untrimmed being the least mature,
then alpha, then beta, then public.
And if you're using these JSDOC tags,
basically you're just stripping more and
more away until you eventually get to
the stuff you're really confident in and
that people should be free to use.
So that's why we have a bunch
of different files here.
They will have different contents.
Where do I find this most useful?
In the world of monorepos, you don't
have to use these for alpha releases or
beta releases.
I will often use untrimmed if
I want to export things and
then I want the ability
to import them in tests.
So that's saying I've exported this thing,
but
don't take that as
an invitation to use it.
I just need to be able to unit test it and
it needs to be available
outside the module.
In order for me to do that,
I will point in a tsconfig
file how we can do paths.
I do something like this.
Something something something dot.
Something like that, right?
Like I would say I'm opting in
to use the untrimmed types.
And if you wanted to do alpha or
beta, you could do that as well.
Now, in a monorepo,
where I think this really sings is
when you have a Couple packages.
Let's say you have a pair of packages and
they're very intimately connected, but
you still have reasons for
wanting to keep them separate.
Say one's more of a library shaped thing
and the other's a CLI shaped thing.
And you're really not
ready to expose everything
the CLI needs to engage
with in terms of how.
The contract it has with this library.
Like, maybe you're making your way towards
making some of these public API things,
but this is a great way to say, all right,
well, there's like a special level of
entanglement that happens here and
you can accomplish that by overriding and
saying, I'm not looking at
the public declaration file.
When I get types for
this library, I'm looking for
the untrimmed one or
the beta one or whatever it is.
And that lets you have control
over kind of the encapsulation, or
at least the encapsulation that type
checking helps steer you towards rather
than saying, look, it's all or nothing.
You're either exporting it,
then you can unit test it, but
also everybody else can use it or
don't export it at all.
And good luck.
All right, so let's go through that
process and let's see this in action.
So I want to add a comma here just so
I can uncomment some more lines.
So we've got the untrimmed file path.
Great.
And I actually tend to want to name
this a little bit differently.
I think it's a little bit of a foot gun
to say if I look in the dist folder and
I see like seeds, models,
dts, it's not scary enough.
So I want to add the word
untrimmed to this.
I want the default thing, you see there,
to be something that is maximally safe.
All right, and let's uncomment
the alpha trimmed file path.
And this adds dash alpha at the end,
which seems fine to me.
The beta trimmed file
path will have that too.
And it adds -beta.
And then finally there is
a public trimmed file path.
And I'm going to remove public from this.
Again, this has to do with
my own convention here.
Like if you don't have a specifier,
if it's just the name of the package dts,
I want that to be the safest thing to use,
not the untrimmed thing.
We can get rid of that trailing comma,
cuz that's all we're gonna do here.
We need to find another symbol in here and
it is this up at the top main entry point,
file path.
There it is.
This is going to be in your
dist folder and it is where.
It's sort of like where this tool
is going to begin as it understands
the types that you're
exporting from your library.
So we're not.
Our convention is dist is
where we're putting that.
All right, lastly,
there are some options lower down in here,
and we've got one here that's
called extractor Message reporting.
There's a section here.
And what is this for these?
You can think of as linting for these
special JSDoc comments and their meaning.
So what I want to do here is add
something and it is ae-missing-release.
Sorry, we need a comma here.
ae-missing-release tag,
colon, log level warning.
There are a whole bunch of different
rules that you can enable here.
There's a link in the course notes that
you can click to see the full set of
things available.
What this specific rule is going to do for
us is it will print
a warning to the console.
So this won't cause the command to fail,
but it'll let us know if
we're exporting things.
And we have not specified.
Is this public, Is this beta, Is this,
is this alpha or is this internal?
I like this because it's sort of, at least
in the warning level, it's nagging code
authors, to be specific, like, don't make
me guess should this be exposed or not.
You have four things you can choose from.
Go ahead and specify one, right?
And we're starting, except for
the one I just added here.
There are none of these.
I'm gonna leave this as a beta,
just for us to find later.
So we're gonna get some warnings.
Final thing we have to do is we
got to create an etc folder in our
models package and it's going
to put a bunch of stuff in here.
Here we go.
It's time to run
the API extractor.
Run local verbose.
We'll talk a little bit about
other options that aren't local.
You all know what verbose is.
Look, a bunch of warnings, aerelease tag.
So we could go through each of these and
figure out.
We'll just address a couple of them.
This we're going to export.
We need this, it's public.
This, it's public.
And we'll make this one.
We're just gonna do some random stuff
here just to show the differences here.
Interesting.
So that's date, time, distance.
Okay, distance is part
of the packages API,
but it's missing a release tab.
Okay, it led me to.
I guess I added a new line with that
comment and I make this a beta.
Okay, so this is a different rule.
It's saying TS doc escape greater
than the greater than characters
should be escaped using a backslash
to avoid confusion with HTML.
Really?
Did I?
Yep, so
this is because you can in some places
in JS docs put an image tag or something.
Great.
I think we've done enough here.
The rest are ae-missing-release tags.
Another interesting thing that
I like to use in this library.
I think it's a different role.
This API extractor can help you make sure
that if you were to export a function,
you're also exporting
the types that are used for
that function's arguments and
return values.
This is useful because I'm sure we've all
run into this situation where you want to
create a variable to hold the parameters
of what you're eventually going to pass to
the function, and you're left trying to
tease out from the function signature.
What's this?
First parameter type.
It ends up being difficult to create
a type annotation that's like
this is the exact type of what this
function expects to be passed.
What API Extractor can do
is say you've exported
a thing like a class or
function or whatever it is,
and it has as part of its
signature some types.
You should also export those
types directly as well,
because they're part of
your beta API surface.